hi today I'm talking about compact
system cameras also known as ILCs
or CSCS and as you can see there's a
large number of them compact system
camera market is the fastest growing
sector of the photography market and it
supposedly designed to bridge the gap
between the higher quality and
interchangeable lenses of digital SLR
and the more convenience of a compact
camera as you can see there's a lot of
different models on the market and I'm
going to be talking you through all the
different systems available within the
compact system camera sector and with
the basic pros and cons and a rundown at
each one now before I go into specific
models of this compact system camera a
word or two about why they vary so much
in size you can see they go from quite
small to much larger now the single
biggest reason for that is the size of
the sensor employed in the camera
there's no standard sensor used in
kampar system cameras and they vary a
lot from the quite small to the much
larger sensors and I've decided to
represent these sizes using Lego
obviously these are not to scale but
they are proportional to each other and
I used Lego because it's quite a good
demonstration and each one of these
little dimples represents a millimeter
and obviously I've had to round up and
round down to the nearest millimeter but
it's give you an idea of the relative
sizes of the sensors used in compact
system cameras now to start with this
sensor here represents the sensor in a
typical smartphone such as an iPhone as
you can see the smallest of the compact
system cameras the Pentax Q system uses
a sensor which is bigger than the sensor
using a smartphone but not massively is
bigger this is the typical sensor of
fact used in most compact cameras
although there are two or three other
different sizes used by compacts as well
now the nickel one system uses a much
larger sensor a one inch sensor and you
can see proportionally it's a
significantly larger sensor than anyone
in this camera even though the camera
itself is not that much bigger and then
we move on to the Micro Four Thirds
cameras like Olympus and Panasonic and
this represents a micro 4/3 sensor
compared with the Nikon one sensor and
as you can see is that much bigger again
and then finally we have the aps-c
sensor used in most consumer digital
SLRs and in quite a few systems in the
compact system camera sector and you can
see that's the biggest sensor of all and
so this is the aps-c size sensor this is
the Micro Four Thirds sensor
so going from aps-c to Micro Four Thirds
to Nick on one to Pentax Q you can
imagine when you put the Pentax Q sensor
next to the aps-c sensor look how much
bigger the sensor in the Fuji x-pro one
is for example than the sensor in the
Pentax Q and that gives you some idea
why the image quality from the Fuji
x-pro one is going to be that much
better than that from the Pentax Q and
also why the camera so much bigger I'm
going to go from smallest system to
larger system in terms of sensor size
which means we kick off with the Pentax
q10 which has a 12 point 4 megapixel
sensor quite small so image quality
won't be the hot as high as some of the
others here but it's did a quite a nice
to cute little camera and it does have
things like Shake Reduction it does a
full HD video on there and there's a
range of 5 lenses available including a
1 fisheye lens - toy lens in which a
manual focus kind of fun lens is it
fairly inexpensive because the sense are
so small getting shallow depth of field
can be quite challenging with cameras
like this so to compensate for that
Pentax is add anything called a bouquet
feature which artificially creates I've
shied up the field look although I have
to say it doesn't work very well next we
have the Nikon one system there are
currently three models in the Nick on
one system range the s1 the j-3 shown
here and the v2 shown here now the V
Series cameras all have built-in
electronic viewfinders now the Nikon 1
system is packed full of very clever
technology for example they can shoot at
60 frames a second a full resolution
or 15 with full auto focus there are
features like the smart photo selector
in which issues a very fast burst of
photographs up to 20 pictures and then
presents to you what it thinks that the
best wants for you to choose from and
you get features like slow-motion video
and there's also a mode which combines a
little bit of slow motion video with a
steel picture to give you that moving
picture kind of thing you get in the
Harry Potter movies altogether a very
clever system but if you like to do
photography traditionally with all the
manual exposure settings and manual
control over everything these are a
little bit frustrating to use because
they don't really offer that kind of
user friendliness